Welcome to Lean's  git source of OpenWrt and packages

中文：如何编译自己需要的 OpenWrt 固件

注意：
1. 不要用 root 用户 git 和编译！！！
2. 国内用户编译前最好准备好梯子
3. 默认登陆IP 192.168.1.1, 密码 password

编译命令如下:

1. 首先装好 Ubuntu 64bit，推荐  Ubuntu  14 LTS x64

2. 命令行输入 sudo apt-get update ，然后输入
sudo apt-get -y install build-essential asciidoc binutils bzip2 gawk gettext git libncurses5-dev libz-dev patch unzip zlib1g-dev lib32gcc1 libc6-dev-i386 subversion flex uglifyjs git-core gcc-multilib p7zip p7zip-full msmtp libssl-dev texinfo libglib2.0-dev xmlto qemu-utils upx libelf-dev autoconf automake libtool autopoint

3. git clone https://github.com/coolsnowwolf/lede 命令下载好源代码，然后 cd lede 进入目录

4. ./scripts/feeds update -a 
   ./scripts/feeds install -a
   make menuconfig 

5. 最后选好你要的路由，输入 make -j1 V=s （-j1 后面是线程数。第一次编译推荐用单线程，国内请尽量全局科学上网）即可开始编译你要的固件了。

本套代码保证肯定可以编译成功。里面包括了 R9 所有源代码，包括 IPK 的。

你可以自由使用，但源码编译二次发布请注明我的 GitHub 仓库链接。谢谢合作！

特别提示：
1. 源代码中绝不含任何后门和可以监控或者劫持你的 HTTPS 的闭源软件，SSL 安全是互联网最后的壁垒。安全干净才是固件应该做到的。
2.如果你自认为 Koolshare 论坛或者其固件的脑残粉，本人不欢迎你使用本源代码。所以如果你是，那么使用过程中遇到任何问题本人概不回应。
3.如有问题需要讨论，欢迎加入 QQ 讨论群：Gargoyle OpenWrt 编译大群 ,号码 718010658 ，加群链接 点击链接加入群聊【Op共享技术交流群】：https://jq.qq.com/?_wv=1027&k=5PUGjOG

Please use "make menuconfig" to choose your preferred
configuration for the toolchain and firmware.

You need to have installed gcc, binutils, bzip2, flex, python, perl, make,
find, grep, diff, unzip, gawk, getopt, subversion, libz-dev and libc headers.

Run "./scripts/feeds update -a" to get all the latest package definitions
defined in feeds.conf / feeds.conf.default respectively
and "./scripts/feeds install -a" to install symlinks of all of them into
package/feeds/.

Use "make menuconfig" to configure your image.

Simply running "make" will build your firmware.
It will download all sources, build the cross-compile toolchain, 
the kernel and all choosen applications.

To build your own firmware you need to have access to a Linux, BSD or MacOSX system
(case-sensitive filesystem required). Cygwin will not be supported because of
the lack of case sensitiveness in the file system.



Note: Addition Lean's private package source code in ./package/lean directory. Use it under GPL v3.

GPLv3 is compatible with more licenses than GPLv2: it allows you to make combinations with code that has specific kinds of additional requirements that are not in GPLv3 itself. Section 7 has more information about this, including the list of additional requirements that are permitted.

